If you look at Matthew chapter 24, you may want to open your Bibles there, because the text of the day comes from there and we find in
24 starting in verse 29 through chapter 25 Jesus actually
is talking about the conditions of the time of the end that we're in fact in right now and
also what we can expect in the great tribulation.
So our scripture is in
Matthew 24 in verse 42. Let's read it.
It says keep on the watch, therefore, because you do not know on what day your Lord is coming.
So what is referred to as coming?
Well, this is speaking about the future time Jesus will be coming as judge.
When is he coming?
Well, he wanted to say there. You do not know the day.
But if you go to the next verse, he started narrows his comment and gives us a little bit of a clue.
He's talking about a householder being on watch for a thief.
Let's read it. 43. It says,
but no one thing if a householder had known and what watched the thief was coming,
he would have kept awake and not allowed his house to be broken into.
So if you notice the footnote is says at what time of night,
so Jesus said, well, the householder knew either day or night, we're going to narrow it down to the night.
That's when you need to be on the watch.
And so it is we are in the last days. That's what he's speaking about.
Now, the coming would be at some point in the last days.
It's another reason this illustration is good for us because he says the watch will be at night.
Now, what happens at nighttime?
Well, at night time, it's usually where there's adversity. If there's going to be adversity,
there's gloom, obscurity at night time. That's when the thieves come in. Those who want to do evil.
That's when some time armies will launch a surprise attacks.
That's where beast will roam when they'll roam.
And as a result, notice what Jesus said in verse 44.
He says on this account, because of that,
he said, you too prove yourselves ready, because the Son of Man is coming at an hour that you do not think to be it.
So what message was he giving us here? Well, in verse 42, keep on the watch. Verse 44,
prove ourselves ready. Now, let's take the keep on the watch first.
During the times we're living in right now, why is it that people are not on the watch?
They don't understand what's happening around us.
Well, to understand, we can go to Isaiah chapter 56, verse 10, because it gives some indication.
Isaiah 56, verse 10, speaking about the leaders of Judah.
And listen what it says.
It says, his watchmen are blind. None of them have taken note. All of them are speechless dogs
unable to bark. So the leaders were to be watchmen, but instead he says they were speechless.
Now, dogs have this very keen sense of hearing, and so they hear before humans. That's why they can
bark giving a warning. But these leaders weren't doing it. They weren't warning the people of the
dangers, and thus the spiritual condition they found themselves in. So the leaders of Judah
actually is a fitting symbol of Christendom's religious clergy today, because they're not warning the
people. And that's why the masses don't understand the serious times we're living in. In fact,
they are spiritually asleep. Now, let's contrast those speechless dogs, so to speak, with
Jehovah's Watchmen, the faithful and discreet slave, just think of what they've done for us.
They keep us alert to the sign of Christ's presence. They help us to avoid the snares of
Satan the devil. They help us to understand and stay focused on the unfulfilled prophecies.
In fact, just think of the amount of spiritual food that they're giving us.
Truly, they are, in fact, on the watch. And as a result, they're helping us to stay on the watch.
But remember, Jesus now narrated down to an individual,
have to prove ourselves ready, he said. So to stay ready, we cannot have this speechless
dog tendency in ourselves. Now, what do we mean? Well, think about this. If our night watchman
is on his shift and he's going around, he sees a water damage, a water leak,
rather, what is he going to do about it? Will he simply take note of it? Well, if he only takes
note of it, the result is going to be major damage. So inherent within being a watchman,
is you have to do something about it. You can't just see it and not act on it. And so it is with
each one of us. We look at the faithful and discreet slave, but a beautiful example they are giving
us, they are fulfilling their assignment in a superior way. But we must each ask ourselves,
is my internal dog barking? Now, the words of Peter here, second Peter chapter three is going
to help us to answer and a reason on that question. It's in second Peter chapter three.
In verse 10, it says, Jehovah's Day will come as a thief, okay? In verse 11, it says,
that's, we need to figure out what sort of persons we are in these areas and our holy acts of conduct
and our deeds of godly devotion. And then in verse 14, we'll read it, therefore beloved ones,
since you are awaiting these things, do your utmost to be found finally by him spotless and
unblemished and in peace. So obviously spotless means when there was a spot, you guy rid of it,
or when there was a blimish, we did something about it. So to manifest these holy acts of conduct,
that verse 11 is talking about, we have to stay morally clean. Now we're living in a world
that doesn't want us to be morally clean. They're doing everything to try to get us to think wrong,
to do things that Jehovah objects to. When we have the first indication that our thinking is not right,
maybe there's an unclean thought or idea comes into our mind, what do we do? Well remember the
watchman, when he sees a leak, he needs to do something about it, otherwise they'll be damaged.
And so it is with us. Even if we're thinking, if we have a thought of deviating from Jehovah's
moral standards, then the figurative dog better start barking, and we better do something about it.
If we don't do so, listen to what the comments of the March 2015 watchtower. It says,
are we finding the gap between our moral standards and those of the world widening?
If not, we have cause for concern. Could it be that our personal standards, though higher than those
of the world, are eroding? If so, we need to take positive action to correct matters in order to
please God. So if we detect a spiritual spot or blimish, let's go to Jehovah God in prayer and ask
him for help. Let's do research in a way that helps us to identify the weakness, but also how
to fix it. And if needed, let's reach out for help. Have you ever lived next to a neighbor that
had a dog that barked all the time? It barked for days, for weeks, for months, barking, and barking?
Pretty soon you'd become oblivious to the bark. Well, may that never happen when our internal
dog is barking? Yes, may we all be determined to heed Jesus' direction. Keep on the watch,
prove ourselves ready.